docs/introduction.md, before:

# Introduction to FretCoach

## Preventive Neurofeedback for Guitar

FretCoach is a real-time preventive AI system that reshapes motor learning before correction is required. Analyzes playing during execution, tracks four metrics (pitch accuracy, scale conformity, timing stability, noise control), delivers feedback through three channels:

- **On-screen metrics** — Live scoring and note detection
- **AI coaching** — Real-time verbal guidance
- **Ambient lighting** — Color-coded performance feedback

![Screenshot Placeholder: Live Practice Session]
*[TODO: Add screenshot showing all feedback channels in action]*

Professional-grade coaching for every practice session — instant feedback, pattern tracking, adaptive guidance.

---

## The Solo Practice Problem

Solo practice without feedback:
- Can't detect out-of-tune notes
- Can't measure timing drift
- Can't identify wrong notes in real-time
- Can't assess string noise
- Can't track actual improvement

Delayed feedback arrives after motor patterns encode. Lessons, recordings, performances — all post-execution. By then, mistakes are practiced hundreds of times.

FretCoach delivers instant feedback during execution, not after.

---

## The FretCoach Solution

FretCoach provides instant feedback through three channels:

### 1. Visual Feedback
Real-time metrics on screen:
- **Pitch Accuracy** — Note accuracy
- **Scale Conformity** — Scale adherence
- **Timing Stability** — Rhythm consistency
- **Noise Control** — String noise detection

Color-coded indicators show performance at a glance.

### 2. AI Coach (Vocal Feedback)
Real-time **spoken** coaching using GPT-4o-mini-TTS:
- *"Your timing is drifting—lock in with the beat."*
- *"Pitch accuracy is solid—focus on reducing string noise."*
- *"You're rushing between strings. Slow down."*

Text is generated by GPT-4o-mini, then converted to natural speech and played during practice. Specific, actionable feedback as you play.

### 3. Ambient Lighting
Smart bulbs reflect performance:
- 🟢 **Green** — Strong performance
- 🟡 **Yellow** — Minor issues
- 🔴 **Red** — Needs work

Visual cues without breaking focus.

---

## How FretCoach Accelerates Learning

Traditional practice:
```
Practice → Wait hours/days → Get feedback → Try to remember → Repeat
```

FretCoach:
```
Play note → Instant analysis → Immediate feedback → Adjust → Next note
```

### The Dual-Brain Architecture

FretCoach combines two complementary systems to deliver both speed and intelligence.

![FretCoach Brain Architecture](/images/FretCoach%20Brain.png)

**Audio Analysis Agent (Fast Loop - Deterministic)**
- Real-time processing with <300ms latency
- Continuous monitoring of pitch, scale, timing, and noise
- Immediate visual feedback and ambient lighting
- Runs entirely locally (no cloud required)

**AI Coach (Slow Loop - LLM-Powered)**
- Intelligent pattern recognition and guidance
- Verbal coaching with personalized recommendations
- Practice plan generation based on history
- Uses cloud LLMs when needed (Gemini, GPT-4o-mini)

This separation ensures **instant feedback for motor learning** while leveraging **AI intelligence for strategic guidance**.

### Why Instant Feedback Works

**Early intervention**
Address errors on first occurrence, not after hundreds of reps.

**Motor learning window**
300ms feedback latency — fast enough for real-time motor shaping.

**Multi-sensory channels**
Visual, auditory, peripheral feedback working in parallel.

**Objective measurement**
Quantified improvement across all metrics.

---

## The Ecosystem

FretCoach consists of three connected components that work together seamlessly through a central database.

![FretCoach Trifecta](/images/FretCoach%20Trifecta.jpeg)

### FretCoach Studio (Desktop Application)
Desktop app for focused practice. Connects via USB audio interface, analyzes in real-time, displays metrics, and provides AI coaching.

**When to use:** Dedicated practice sessions

### FretCoach Portable (Raspberry Pi Device)
Raspberry Pi 5 device with the same analysis engine. Supports Manual and AI modes, syncs automatically.

**When to use:** Practice anywhere without a laptop

### FretCoach Hub (Web Platform)
Web analytics platform. Review sessions, chat with AI coach, generate practice plans, track progress.

**When to use:** Planning and reviewing

All three components share a **central database** (PostgreSQL via Supabase), enabling:
- Seamless practice tracking across devices
- AI coach access to your complete practice history
- Cross-device practice plan sync

---

## What Makes FretCoach Different

**Not a learning app** — Doesn't teach *what* to play. Ensures you play it correctly.

**Not a recording tool** — Doesn't capture performance. Shapes it in real-time.

**Not a tuner** — Evaluates full technique (pitch, timing, scale, noise).

**It's preventive neurofeedback** — Intervenes during execution before patterns solidify.

---

## Current Focus: Scales

The current implementation focuses on **scale practice**—the foundational building blocks of music. Every great solo, improvisation, and melodic phrase is built from scales.

Supported scales:
- Major/Minor Diatonic (7 notes)
- Major/Minor Pentatonic (5 notes)
- All 12 keys

FretCoach ensures you're playing the right notes, in time, with clean technique—building the muscle memory that every guitarist needs.

---

## Future Vision

Built for guitar. Designed to extend to vocals, bass, drums, and other motor skills where real-time feedback accelerates learning.

Current focus: preventive neurofeedback for guitar practice.

---

## Ready to Start?

→ **[Quickstart Guide](quickstart.md)** — Get FretCoach running in 5 minutes
→ **[Desktop Application](desktop-app.md)** — Deep dive into the primary practice interface
→ **[System Architecture](architecture.md)** — Understand how the components work together

---

**Navigation:**
- [← Back to Index](index.md)
- [Quickstart Guide →](quickstart.md)

Commit message:

feat: Update documentation to reflect FretCoach's expansion from guitar to a comprehensive music learning system

docs/introduction.md, after:

# Introduction to FretCoach

## Preventive Neurofeedback for Music Learning

FretCoach is a real-time adaptive AI music learning system designed to help learners improve faster by receiving feedback while they practice, not after. Initially targeting guitar players, FretCoach reshapes motor learning before correction is required. It analyzes playing during execution, tracks four metrics (pitch accuracy, scale conformity, timing stability, noise control), and delivers feedback through three channels:

- **On-screen metrics** — Live scoring and note detection
- **AI coaching** — Real-time verbal guidance
- **Ambient lighting** — Color-coded performance feedback

![Screenshot Placeholder: Live Practice Session]
*[TODO: Add screenshot showing all feedback channels in action]*

Professional-grade coaching for every practice session — instant feedback, pattern tracking, adaptive guidance.

---

## The Solo Practice Problem

Solo music practice without feedback:
- Can't detect out-of-tune notes or pitch issues
- Can't measure timing drift
- Can't identify wrong notes in real-time
- Can't assess unwanted noise or artifacts
- Can't track actual improvement objectively

Delayed feedback arrives after motor patterns encode. Lessons, recordings, performances — all post-execution. By then, mistakes are practiced hundreds of times.

FretCoach delivers instant feedback during execution, not after. This approach is applicable to any instrument where real-time audio analysis can provide actionable feedback.

---

## The FretCoach Solution

FretCoach provides instant feedback through three channels:

### 1. Visual Feedback
Real-time metrics on screen:
- **Pitch Accuracy** — Note accuracy
- **Scale Conformity** — Scale adherence
- **Timing Stability** — Rhythm consistency
- **Noise Control** — String noise detection

Color-coded indicators show performance at a glance.

### 2. AI Coach (Vocal Feedback)
Real-time **spoken** coaching using GPT-4o-mini-TTS:
- *"Your timing is drifting—lock in with the beat."*
- *"Pitch accuracy is solid—focus on reducing string noise."*
- *"You're rushing between strings. Slow down."*

Text is generated by GPT-4o-mini, then converted to natural speech and played during practice. Specific, actionable feedback as you play.

### 3. Ambient Lighting
Smart bulbs reflect performance:
- 🟢 **Green** — Strong performance
- 🟡 **Yellow** — Minor issues
- 🔴 **Red** — Needs work

Visual cues without breaking focus.

---

## How FretCoach Accelerates Learning

Traditional practice:
```
Practice → Wait hours/days → Get feedback → Try to remember → Repeat
```

FretCoach:
```
Play note → Instant analysis → Immediate feedback → Adjust → Next note
```

### The Dual-Brain Architecture

FretCoach combines two complementary systems to deliver both speed and intelligence.

![FretCoach Brain Architecture](/images/FretCoach%20Brain.png)

**Audio Analysis Agent (Fast Loop - Deterministic)**
- Real-time processing with <300ms latency
- Continuous monitoring of pitch, scale, timing, and noise
- Immediate visual feedback and ambient lighting
- Runs entirely locally (no cloud required)

**AI Coach (Slow Loop - LLM-Powered)**
- Intelligent pattern recognition and guidance
- Verbal coaching with personalized recommendations
- Practice plan generation based on history
- Uses cloud LLMs when needed (Gemini, GPT-4o-mini)

This separation ensures **instant feedback for motor learning** while leveraging **AI intelligence for strategic guidance**.

### Why Instant Feedback Works

**Early intervention**
Address errors on first occurrence, not after hundreds of reps.

**Motor learning window**
300ms feedback latency — fast enough for real-time motor shaping.

**Multi-sensory channels**
Visual, auditory, peripheral feedback working in parallel.

**Objective measurement**
Quantified improvement across all metrics.

---

## The Ecosystem

FretCoach consists of three connected components that work together seamlessly through a central database.

![FretCoach Trifecta](/images/FretCoach%20Trifecta.jpeg)

### FretCoach Studio (Desktop Application)
Desktop app for focused practice. Connects via USB audio interface, analyzes in real-time, displays metrics, and provides AI coaching.

**When to use:** Dedicated practice sessions

### FretCoach Portable (Raspberry Pi Device)
Raspberry Pi 5 device with the same analysis engine. Supports Manual and AI modes, syncs automatically.

**When to use:** Practice anywhere without a laptop

### FretCoach Hub (Web Platform)
Web analytics platform. Review sessions, chat with AI coach, generate practice plans, track progress.

**When to use:** Planning and reviewing

All three components share a **central database** (PostgreSQL via Supabase), enabling:
- Seamless practice tracking across devices
- AI coach access to your complete practice history
- Cross-device practice plan sync

---

## What Makes FretCoach Different

**Not a learning app** — Doesn't teach *what* to play. Ensures you play it correctly.

**Not a recording tool** — Doesn't capture performance. Shapes it in real-time.

**Not a tuner** — Evaluates full technique (pitch, timing, scale, noise).

**It's preventive neurofeedback** — Intervenes during execution before patterns solidify.

---

## Current Focus: Guitar Scale Practice

The initial implementation focuses on **guitar scale practice**—the foundational building blocks of music. Every great solo, improvisation, and melodic phrase is built from scales.

Supported scales for guitar:
- Major/Minor Diatonic (7 notes)
- Major/Minor Pentatonic (5 notes)
- All 12 keys

FretCoach ensures you're playing the right notes, in time, with clean technique—building the muscle memory that every musician needs. This focused approach allows us to perfect the feedback system before expanding to other instruments.

---

## Future Vision

Built initially for guitar. Designed from the ground up to extend to vocals, bass, drums, piano, wind instruments, and other musical skills where real-time feedback accelerates learning.

The architecture—combining fast deterministic audio analysis with intelligent AI coaching—is instrument-agnostic. As FretCoach matures, the same preventive neurofeedback approach will be adapted to help learners master any instrument where audio analysis can provide actionable guidance.

**Current focus:** Perfecting preventive neurofeedback for guitar learners.
**Long-term vision:** A comprehensive music learning platform supporting multiple instruments and practice modalities.

---

## Ready to Start?

→ **[Quickstart Guide](quickstart.md)** — Get FretCoach running in 5 minutes
→ **[Desktop Application](desktop-app.md)** — Deep dive into the primary practice interface
→ **[System Architecture](architecture.md)** — Understand how the components work together

---

**Navigation:**
- [← Back to Index](index.md)
- [Quickstart Guide →](quickstart.md)
